Causely Integration Tile (#2333)
DataDog/integrations-extras: causely/README.md

# Causely - Assure Continuous Application Reliability using Causal AI

## Overview

The [Causal AI platform][1] automatically captures, represents and analyzes causality. It enables self-managed, resilient applications by bridging observability with automated orchestration. 

Instead of flood of alerts, Causely tells you exactly what you need to know about all active and emerging application failures. With Causely, understand why a failure happened, what the root cause was, and how to fix it.

Use Causely to:

- **Assure continuous application reliability**: Guarantee that KPIs, SLAs, SLOs, and SLIs are consistently met to maintain application reliability and performance.
- **Improve operational efficiency**: Reduce labor, data, and tooling costs by focusing on faster Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) and implementing efficient operational processes.

> - **Accelerate the delivery of features and innovations**: Enhance the speed and reliability of shipping new services and features to market, ensuring a competitive edge and meeting customer demands promptly.

Reviewer: Can you please include what data the integration is specifically sending to data and the value?

Author: yes, of course, done

Reviewer: This should be added to the overview. I am not seeing where you mention what data is sent into Datadog .Could you make sure to clarify which data is pulled out and what data is sent in?

Author: I added an additional sentence to the overview, please let me know if this is sufficient description at this section.

# Causely - Assure Continuous Application Reliability using Causal AI

## Overview

The [Causal AI platform][1] automatically captures, represents and analyzes causality. It enables self-managed, resilient applications by bridging observability with automated orchestration. 

Instead of flood of alerts, Causely tells you exactly what you need to know about all active and emerging application failures. With Causely, understand why a failure happened, what the root cause was, and how to fix it.

Use Causely to:

- **Assure continuous application reliability**: Guarantee that KPIs, SLAs, SLOs, and SLIs are consistently met to maintain application reliability and performance.
- **Improve operational efficiency**: Reduce labor, data, and tooling costs by focusing on faster Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) and implementing efficient operational processes.

> - **Accelerate the delivery of features and innovations**: Enhance the speed and reliability of shipping new services and features to market, ensuring a competitive edge and meeting customer demands promptly.

Reviewer: The overview is missing what the Causely <> Datadog integration does. Are lines 11-13 the specific data the integration is pulling from Datadog?

Author: yes, that is the goal with the information gathered from datadog

## Setup

> The Causely integration uses a [Datadog API key][2], which needs to be created by a Datadog admin.

Reviewer: Can you provide the exact steps a user will take? What happens with the API key once created?

Author: the exact config is in the referenced documentation, but let me expand on what Causely will after it is configured

> To connect Datadog with Causely, create monitors in Datadog. For more information, see the [Alerting documentation][3].

Reviewer: This can be removed or moved under the paragraph below

Author: done, thanks

# Causely - Assure Continuous Application Reliability using Causal AI

## Overview

> In the fast-paced world of cloud-native development, ensuring application health and performance is critical. The application of Causal AI, with its ability to understand cause and effect relationships in complex distributed systems, offers the potential to streamline this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the fast-paced world of cloud-native development, ensuring application health and performance is critical. The application of Causal AI, with its ability to understand cause and effect relationships in complex distributed systems, offers the potential to streamline this process.
```

This sounds like marketing copy. Could you update this to remove the marketing copy and provide 1-2 sentences on what your product does?

Author: removed

Author: removed

> 
> A key enabler for this is application instrumentation that facilitates an understanding of application services and how they interact with one another. Datadog Application Performance Monitoring (APM) provides deep visibility into applications, enabling the identification of performance bottlenecks, troubleshoot issues, and optimize services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Use Causely to:

- **Assure continuous application reliability**: Guarantee that KPIs, SLAs, SLOs, and SLIs are consistently met to maintain application reliability and performance.
- **Improve operational efficiency**: Reduce labor, data, and tooling costs by focusing on faster Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) and implementing efficient operational processes.
- **Accelerate the delivery of features and innovations**: Enhance the speed and reliability of shipping new services and features to market, ensuring a competitive edge and meeting customer demands promptly.

> Causely integrates with Datadog to provide automated root cause analysis for Datadog Watchdog events. Causely uses the Datadog API key to fetch the configured monitors and use the triggered Watchdog events as input to the Causal AI reasoning platform and identifies the root cause of the anomalies and alerts. Causely sends back the remediated root case as events to be viewed in the Causely Datadog dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Causely integrates with Datadog to provide automated root cause analysis for Datadog Watchdog events. Causely uses the Datadog API key to fetch the configured monitors and use the triggered Watchdog events as input to the Causal AI reasoning platform and identifies the root cause of the anomalies and alerts. Causely sends back the remediated root case as events to Datadog which can be viewed in the Causely Datadog dashboard.
```

Reviewer: Should it be root case or root cause?

Author: than you, fixed

# Causely - Assure Continuous Application Reliability using Causal AI

## Overview

Our [Causal AI platform][1] automatically captures, represents and analyzes causality. We enable self-managed, resilient applications by bridging observability with automated orchestration.  Instead of constant noisy alerts, Causely tells you exactly what you need to know about all active and emerging application failures:

- Why did it happen?
- What was the root cause?
- How can it be fixed?

## What Causely offers:

> ### Assure Continuous Application Reliability

Reviewer: Within the overview, we avoid marketing material as this should be focused on: 
	1	What does your product do in 1-2 sentences
	2	What will customers get from this integration (the value of the integration & why it's helpful)
	3	What types of data sent and the value

Author: see below

- Guarantee that KPIs, SLAs, SLOs, and SLIs are consistently met to maintain application reliability and performance.
### Improve Operational Efficiency
- Reduce labor, data, and tooling costs by focusing on faster Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) and implementing efficient operational processes.
### Accelerate The Delivery Of Features & Innovations
- Enhance the speed and reliability of shipping new services and features to market, ensuring a competitive edge and meeting customer demands promptly.

## Setup

The Causely integration uses a [Datadog API key][2], which needs to be created by a Datadog admin.

> To connect Datadog with Causely, create monitors in Datadog. Refer to Datadog's [Alerting documentation][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect Datadog with Causely, create monitors in Datadog. For more information, see the [Alerting documentation][3].
```

> See the [Causely documentation][4] to learn how to configure the Causely integration for Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how to configure the Causely integration for Datadog, see the [Causely documentation][4].
```
